# Rights Automation for Market Data Community Group Charter

This Charter is work in progress. To submit feedback, please use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/w3c/market-data-odrl-profile/issues).

* This Charter:{TBD: URI}
* Start Date: 24th April, 2020
* Last Modifed: 24th April, 2020

## Goal
The goal of this group is develop and publish a profile of ODRL that allows the suppliers, vendors, and consumers of market data to translate their licenses into a machine-understood format that can support automated compliance testing and enforcement.

## Scope of Work
The work will focus on modelling the usage rights provided by market data licenses and their concomitant obligations as policies. 

Market data is mostly the pricing and trading data for financial instruments (and their associated indices) generated by trading venues. 

The group will look at how these policies progress along the market data supply chain by identifying the compliance and enforcement scenarios the profile must support.

### Out of Scope
The group will not analyse the licenses for "Alt Data".

## Deliverables

### Specifications
The group aims to deliver a market-data profile for ODRL as an ontology. It aims to do this within six months.

### Non-Normative Reports
The group will also report on the licenses, use cases, and test cases it has used to guide the development of the profile.

It may also publish a guide to the application of the profile in modelling market data licenses.

### Test Suites and Other Software
The group will not publish software.

## Dependencies or Liaisons
The group will liase with the [ODRL Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/odrl/) on the maintenance and development of the [ODRL recommendations](https://www.w3.org/TR/odrl-model/).

## Community Group Process
The group operates under the [Community and Business Group Process](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/). Terms in this Charter that conflict with those of the Community and Business Group Process are void.

As with other Community Groups, W3C seeks organizational licensing commitments under the [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](http://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/). When people request to participate without representing their organization's legal interests, W3C will in general approve those requests for this group with the following understanding: W3C will seek and expect an organizational commitment under the CLA starting with the individual's first request to make a contribution to a group [Deliverable](#deliverables). The section on [Contribution Mechanics](#contrib) describes how W3C expects to monitor these contribution requests.

The [W3C Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/) applies to participation in this group.

## Work Limited to Charter Scope
The group will not publish Specifications on topics other than those listed under [Specifications](#specifications) above. See below for [how to modify the charter](#charter-change).

## Contribution Mechanics
Substantive Contributions to Specifications can only be made by Community Group Participants who have agreed to the [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](http://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).

Specifications created in the Community Group must use the [W3C Software and Document License](http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2015/copyright-software-and-document). All other documents produced by the group should use that License where possible.

Community Group participants agree to make all contributions either in the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/w3c/market-data-odrl-profile) or on the group's [public mailing list](public-md-odrl-profile@w3.org) or [public contrib list](public-md-odrl-profile-contrib@w3.org).

## Transparency
The group will conduct all of its technical work in public. All technical work will be reflected in its GitHub repository. This is to ensure contributions can be tracked through a software tool.

Meetings may be restricted to Community Group participants, but a public summary or minutes must be posted to the group's public mailing list, or to a GitHub issue if the group uses GitHub.

## Decision Process
This group will seek to make decisions where there is consensus. After discussion and due consideration of different opinions, a decision should be publicly recorded (where GitHub is used as the resolution of an Issue).

If substantial disagreement remains (e.g. the group is divided) and the group needs to decide an Issue in order to continue to make progress, the Committers will choose an alternative that had substantial support (with a vote of Committers if necessary). Individuals who disagree with the choice are strongly encouraged to take ownership of their objection by taking ownership of an alternative fork. This is explicitly allowed (and preferred to blocking progress) with a goal of letting implementation experience inform which spec is ultimately chosen by the group to move ahead with.

Any decisions reached at any meeting are tentative and should be recorded in a GitHub Issue and published to the group's public mail list. Any group participant may object to a decision reached at an online or in-person meeting within 7 days of publication of the decision provided that they include clear technical reasons for their objection. The Chairs will facilitate discussion to try to resolve the objection according to the [decision process](#decision).

It is the Chairs' responsibility to ensure that the decision process is fair, respects the consensus of the CG, and does not unreasonably favour or discriminate against any group participant or their employer.

## Chair Selection

Participants in this group choose their Chair(s) and can replace their Chair(s) at any time using whatever means they prefer. However, if 5 participants, no two from the same organisation, call for an election, the group must use the following process to replace any current Chair(s) with a new Chair, consulting the Community Development Lead on election operations (e.g., voting infrastructure and using [RFC 2777](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2777)).

1. Participants announce their candidacies. Participants have 14 days to announce their candidacies, but this period ends as soon as all participants have announced their intentions. If there is only one candidate, that person becomes the Chair. If there are two or more candidates, there is a vote. Otherwise, nothing changes.
2. Participants vote. Participants have 21 days to vote for a single candidate, but this period ends as soon as all participants have voted. The individual who receives the most votes, no two from the same organisation, is elected chair. In case of a tie, RFC2777 is used to break the tie. An elected Chair may appoint co-Chairs.

Participants dissatisfied with the outcome of an election may ask the Community Development Lead to intervene. The Community Development Lead, after evaluating the election, may take any action including no action.

## Amendments to this Charter

The group can decide to work on a proposed amended charter, editing the text using the [Decision Process](#decision) described above. 

The decision on whether to adopt the amended charter is made by conducting a 30-day vote on the proposed new charter. The new charter, if approved, takes effect on either the proposed date in the charter itself, or 7 days after the result of the election is announced, whichever is later. A new charter must receive 2/3 of the votes cast in the approval vote to pass. The group may make simple corrections to the charter such as deliverable dates by the simpler group decision process rather than this charter amendment process. The group will use the amendment process for any substantive changes to the goals, scope, deliverables, decision process or rules for amending the charter.